Add HLRC docs for AuthN and TLS (#51355)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/java-rest/low-level/configuration.asciidoc

--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RestClientDocumentation.java[rest-client-config-trust-ca-pem]
--------------------------------------------------

When elasticsearch is configured to require client TLS authentication, i.e. when a PKI realm is configured, the client needs to provide
a client certificate during the TLS handshake in order to authenticate. The following is an example of setting up the client for TLS
authentication with a certificate and a private key that are stored in a PKCS#12 keystore.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RestClientDocumentation.java[rest-client-config-mutual-tls-authentication]
--------------------------------------------------

if the client certificate and key are not available in a keystore but as PEM encoded files, there is no possibility to use them
directly to build an SSLContext, without relying on external libraries to parse the PEM key into a PrivateKey instance. Alternatively, you
can use external tools to build a keystore from your PEM files, as shown in the following example:

```

> openssl pkcs12 -export -in client.crt -inkey private_key.pem -name "client" -out client.p12

Reviewer: Can we split this on two lines to that it is easier to read in the docs?
```suggestion
openssl pkcs12 -export -in client.crt -inkey private_key.pem \
    -name "client" -out client.p12
```

--------------------------------------------------
<1> Disable preemptive authentication

=== Other authentication methods

==== Elasticsearch Token Service tokens

> Configuring the client to authenticate with an elasticsearch access token can be accomplished by setting the relevant HTTP request header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want the client to authenticate with an Elasticsearch access token, set the relevant HTTP request header.
```

If the client makes requests on behalf of a single user only, you can set the necessary `Authorization` header as a default header as shown

> in the following example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the following example:
```

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RestClientDocumentation.java[rest-client-auth-bearer-token]
--------------------------------------------------

==== Elasticsearch API keys

> Configuring the client to authenticate with an elasticsearch API Key can be also accomplished by setting the relevant HTTP request header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want the client to authenticate with an Elasticsearch API key, set the relevant HTTP request header.
```

If the client makes requests on behalf of a single user only, you can set the necessary `Authorization` header as a default header as shown

> in the following example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the following example:
```

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RestClientDocumentation.java[rest-client-auth-api-key]
--------------------------------------------------

=== Encrypted communication

Encrypted communication using TLS can also be configured through the
`HttpClientConfigCallback`. The
https://hc.apache.org/httpcomponents-asyncclient-dev/httpasyncclient/apidocs/org/apache/http/impl/nio/client/HttpAsyncClientBuilder.html[`org.apache.http.impl.nio.client.HttpAsyncClientBuilder`]
 received as an argument exposes multiple methods to configure encrypted
 communication: `setSSLContext`, `setSSLSessionStrategy` and
 `setConnectionManager`, in order of precedence from the least important.

> When accessing an elasticsearch cluster that is setup for TLS on the HTTP layer, the client needs to trust the certificate that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When accessing an Elasticsearch cluster that is setup for TLS on the HTTP layer, the client needs to trust the certificate that
```

> elasticsearch is using.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch is using.
```

>  The following is an example of setting up the client to trust the CA that has signed the certificate that elasticsearch is using, when

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The following is an example of setting up the client to trust the CA that has signed the certificate that Elasticsearch is using, when
```

 that CA certificate is available in a PKCS#12 keystore:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RestClientDocumentation.java[rest-client-config-encrypted-communication]
--------------------------------------------------

> The following is an example of setting up the client to trust the CA that has signed the certificate that elasticsearch is using, when

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is an example of setting up the client to trust the CA that has signed the certificate that Elasticsearch is using, when
```

that CA certificate is available as a PEM encoded file.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RestClientDocumentation.java[rest-client-config-trust-ca-pem]
--------------------------------------------------

> When Elasticsearch is configured to require client TLS authentication, i.e. when a PKI realm is configured, the client needs to provide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When Elasticsearch is configured to require client TLS authentication, for example when a PKI realm is configured, the client needs to provide
```

> When elasticsearch is configured to require client TLS authentication, i.e. when a PKI realm is configured, the client needs to provide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When Elasticsearch is configured to require client TLS authentication, i.e. when a PKI realm is configured, the client needs to provide
```

> When elasticsearch is configured to require client TLS authentication, i.e. when a PKI realm is configured, the client needs to provide

Reviewer 2: > When elasticsearch is configured to require client TLS authentication, i.e. when a PKI realm is configured ...

The use of "i.e." here implies that this is the only situation where ES requires TLS authentication, which seems unlikely to me.  Should it be "e.g." or "for example" instead?

Author: A PKI realm is actually the most common case to require TLS Client authentication on the HTTP layer. Otherwise the client authenticates with some other means ( credentials, tokens, api keys ) and not with a client certificate. I

Reviewer 2: Unless it's the *only* case, I'd still recommend "e.g." instead of "i.e.".

Author: It is the _only_ documented case , but a user might elect to enable it and just disregard the authentication information ( by not specifying a PKI realm ) I guess, so I'll apply the suggestion. 

By the way, thanks for that , I did not know that distinction and was using e.g and i.e. interchangeably for years :heart:

Reviewer 2: Words are fun i.e. crazy-making :)

> When elasticsearch is configured to require client TLS authentication, i.e. when a PKI realm is configured, the client needs to provide

Author: ```suggestion
When elasticsearch is configured to require client TLS authentication, e.g. when a PKI realm is configured, the client needs to provide
```

a client certificate during the TLS handshake in order to authenticate. The following is an example of setting up the client for TLS
authentication with a certificate and a private key that are stored in a PKCS#12 keystore.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RestClientDocumentation.java[rest-client-config-mutual-tls-authentication]
--------------------------------------------------

> if the client certificate and key are not available in a keystore but as PEM encoded files, there is no possibility to use them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the client certificate and key are not available in a keystore but rather as PEM encoded files, there is no possibility to use them
```

> directly to build an SSLContext, without relying on external libraries to parse the PEM key into a PrivateKey instance. Alternatively, you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
directly to build an SSLContext. You must rely on external libraries to parse the PEM key into a PrivateKey instance. Alternatively, you
```
